# CRNCH Summit Poster Session
The CRNCH Student Poster Session will be held on Feburary 3rd, 2022 from ~4:30-6 PM. We are excited to have a large number of posters from our CRNCH students, and we also are thrilled to be able to feature the work of some of our [CRNCH PhD Fellowship winners](https://crnch.gatech.edu/content/crnch-fellowship).

We note that in some cases, we have not linked posters due to work being under submission. 

| Student Presenter, Student Authors | Poster Title | Advisor(s) | GT Department | [Poster] [Abstract] [Lightning Talk] |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------ | ---------- | -------------|-------------------|
| Siri Narla   (F2021 fellowship winner) | "Ultra-low Power Magnetoelectric Random Access Memory for TCAM Application" |   Dr. Azad J. Naeemi | ECE | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Siri_Narla_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#sn) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Siri+Narla+-+Ultra-low+Power+Magnetoelectric+Random+Access+Memory+for+TCAM+Application/1_mxkw8d4o) |
| Prasanna V. Ravindran (F2021 fellowship winner) | "Quantum Annealing In Ferroelectronic Platforms" |  Dr. Asif Islam Khan |  ECE | [NA](#pr) [NA] [NA] |
| Samantha Lubaba Noor  (S2021 fellowship winner) | "Benchmarking of Plasmonic MIM and MSM Waveguide Couplers for an Integrated Computing System" | Dr. Azad J. Naeemi | ECE | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Samantha_Noor_CF_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#san) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Samantha+Lubaba+Noor+-+Benchmarking+of+Plasmonic+MIM+and+MSM+Waveguide+Couplers+for+an+Integrated+Computing+System/1_0wrzn1lo) |
| Stefan Abi-Karam, Rishov Sarkar | "Graph Neural Network Accelerators for FPGAs: GenGNN and Future Research Directions" | Dr. Callie Hao | ECE | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Stefan_AbiKaram_et_al_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#sakm) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Stefan+Abi-Karam+-+Graph+Neural+Network+Accelerators+for+FPGAsA+GenGNN%C2%A0and+Future+Research+Directions/1_f879i1vc) |
| Austin Adams, Elton Pinto | "Enabling a Programming Environment for an Experimental Ion Trap Quantum Testbed" | Drs. Tom Conte, Jeffrey Young | SCS | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Austin_Adams_et_al_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#aa) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Austin+Adams+-+Enabling+a+Programming+Environment+for+an+Experimental+Ion+Trap+Quantum+Testbed/1_9vfw61zj) |
| Spencer Bowles, Mourad Musallam | "Using LASSO to Optimize SNN Decoders on Mixed-Signal Harware" | Dr. Jeffrey Young | ECE | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Spencer_Bowles_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#sb) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Spencer+Bowles+-+Using+LASSO+to+Optimize+SNN+Decoders+on+Mixed-Signal+Harware/1_l40dncyw) |
| Gibran Essa | "A Library for Automated Adiabatic Circuit Generation" | Drs. Tom Conte, Jeffrey Young | SCS | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Gibran_Essa_et_al_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#ge) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Gibran+Essa+-+A+Library+for+Automated+Adiabatic+Circuit+Generation/1_zd7geaxj) |
| Pulkit Gupta, Jack Lafiandra | "Shallow Online Neural Branch Prediction" | Dr. Tom Conte | ECE | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Pulkit_Gupta_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#pg) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/playlist/dedicated/1_cuzeaxps/1_8v3yhwlh) |
| Hang Hu, Euna Kim | "Direction-Optimized Parallel BFS in PIM" | Dr. Hyesoon Kim  | SCS | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Hang_Hu_et_al_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#hh) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Hang+Hu+-+Direction-Optimized+Parallel+BFS+in+PIM/1_22tiembs) |
| Vincent Huang, Patrick Lavin | "Accurately Modeling Sparse Accesses for Benchmarking and Architectural Simulation" | Drs. Rich Vuduc, Jeffrey Young | CSE/SCS | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Vincent_Huang_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#vh) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Vincent+Huang+-+Accurately+Modeling+Sparse+Accesses+for+Benchmarking+and+Architectural+Simulation/1_37ybsidq) |
| Sam Jijina | "UAV Workload Characterization and Analysis" | Dr. Hyesoon Kim | SCS | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Sam_Jijina_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#sj) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Sam+Jijina+-+UAV+Workload+Characterization+and+Analysis/1_qlhvoily) |
| Aksay Kamath | "Exploiting HBM for CNN Acceleration on FPGAs" | Dr. Callie Hao | ECE | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Akshay_Kamath_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#ak) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Akshay+Kamath+-+Exploiting+HBM+for+CNN+Acceleration+on+FPGAs/1_xwfk398f) |
| Ankit Kaul, Madison Manley | "Thermal Modeling of 3D Polylithic Integration" | Dr. Muhannad Bakir | ECE | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Ankit_Kaul_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#mm) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Madison+Manley+-+Thermal+Modeling+of+3D+Polylithic+Integration/1_1l8ulvw5) |
| Misun Park | "Serving Machine Learning From the Edge" | Drs. Ketan Bhardwaj, Ada Gavrilovska | SCS | [Poster]() [Abstract](#mp) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Misun+Park+-+Serving+Machine+Learning+From+the+Edge/1_38lhgrki) |
| Elton Pinto | "Implementing Quantum Verification of Matrix Products" | Drs. Tom Conte, Jeffrey Young | SCS | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Elton_Pinto_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#ep) [Lightning Talk] |
| Sreejith Rajan, Ankit Kaul | "Silicon Integrated Microfluidic Cooling for High Power 2.5D FPGA" |  Dr. Muhannad Bakir | ECE | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Sreejith_Rajan_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#sr) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Sreejith+Rajan+-+Silicon+Integrated+Microfluidic+Cooling+for+High+Power+2.5D+FPGA/1_0u3tl1in) |
| Marrina Vemmou | "COSPlay: Using Coroutines for High-Throughput Synchronous Persistence" | Dr. Alex Daglis  | SCS | [Poster](https://github.com/gt-crnch/crnch-summit-2022/blob/main/student_poster_session/student_posters/Marina_Vemmou_CRNCH_Summit22_Poster.pdf) [Abstract](#mv) [Lightning Talk](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/media/Marinna+Vemmou+-+COSPlayA+Using+Coroutines+for+High-Throughput+Synchronous+Persistence/1_1gut84su) |
| Zishen Wan | "An Energy-Efficient and Runtime-Reconfigurable FPGA-Based Accelerator for Robotic Localization Systems" | Dr. Arijit Raychowdury | ECE | [Abstract](#zw) [NA] [NA] |

## Lightning Talk Playlist
[All Lightning Talks - Playlist](https://mediaspace.gatech.edu/playlist/dedicated/1_cuzeaxps/)

## Student Abstracts:

<a id="sn">**Siri Narla - "Benchmarking of Plasmonic MIM and MSM Waveguide Couplers for an Integrated Computing System"**</a>
No abstract provided.

<a id="pr">**Prasanna V. Ravindran**</a>
No abstract or poster available as work is currently under review.

<a id="san">**Samantha Noor - "Benchmarking of Plasmonic MIM and MSM Waveguide Couplers for an Integrated Computing System"**</a>

Plasmonic metal-insulator-metal waveguide (MIM WG) is a promising building
block of devices of a plasmonic computing system, and metal-semiconductor-metal (MSM)
WG offers high-speed detection of plasmon signals. MIM and MSM WG couplers are an
essential component of any integrated computing system that requires an interface between the
plasmonic devices and the electronic circuits. However, the MIM and MSM WG couplers have
not yet been explored and systematically studied. This work analyzes and benchmarks various
coupling schemes of the plasmonic MIM and MSM WGs to single out the best coupling approach.
From the detailed numerical analysis and considering the trade-offs among coupling loss, total
capacitance, system noise, and bandwidth, a holistic metric is introduced to quantify and compare
the system-level performance of the couplers, and a novel coupling scheme is identified as the
most attractive choice for coupling the two WGs.

<a id="sakm">**Stefan Abi-Karam, Rishov Sarkar - "Graph Neural Network Accelerators for FPGAs: GenGNN and Future Research Directions"**</a>

In this work, we present a generic GNN acceleration framework using High-Level Synthesis (HLS), named GenGNN, with two-fold goals. First, we aim to deliver ultra-fast GNN inference without any graph preprocessing for real-time requirements. Second, we aim to support a diverse set of GNN models with the extensibility to flexibly adapt to new models. We verify our implementation on-board on CRNCH’s Xilinx Alveo U50 FPGAs and observe a speed-up of up to 25× against CPU baseline and 13× against GPU baseline. We also propose two expansions for this work. The first is to improve upon GenGNN across both small graphs and large graphs. We are targeting ultra-fast small graph acceleration to enable high throughput for thousands of small graphs, as well as scalable large graph acceleration to optimize latency for graphs with millions of nodes and edges. The second is to automate model conversion from PyTorch GNN models to HLS C++ code. Our GNN accelerators lack similar optimizations and repetition of the same kernels across all models. To address this, we want to build an HLS library of GNN components allowing for automatic templating and generation to HLS given a PyTorch model.

<a id="aa">**Austin Adams, Elton Pinto - "Enabling a Programming Environment for an Experimental Ion Trap Quantum Testbed"**</a>

Ion trap quantum hardware promises to provide a computational advantage over classical computing for specific problem spaces while also providing an alternative hardware implementation path to cryogenic quantum systems as typified by IBM's quantum hardware. However, programming ion trap systems currently requires both strategies to mitigate high levels of noise and also tools to ease the challenge of programming these systems with pulse- or gate-level operations.

This work focuses on improving the state-of-the-art for quantum programming of ion trap testbeds through the use of a quantum language specification, QCOR, and by demonstrating multi-level optimizations at the language, intermediate representation, and hardware backend levels. We implement a new QCOR/XACC backend to target a general ion trap testbed and then demonstrate the usage of multi-level optimizations to improve circuit fidelity and to reduce gate count. These techniques include the usage of a backend-specific numerical optimizer and physical gate optimizations to minimize the number of native instructions sent to the hardware. We evaluate our compiler backend using several QCOR benchmark programs, finding that on present testbed hardware, our compiler backend maintains the number of two-qubit native operations but decreases the number of single-qubit native operations by 1.52 times compared to the previous compiler regime. For projected testbed hardware upgrades, our compiler sees a reduction in two-qubit native operations by 2.40 times and one-qubit native operations by 6.13 times.

<a id="sb">**Spencer Bowles, Mourad Musallam - "Using LASSO to Optimize SNN Decoders on Mixed-Signal Harware"**</a>

The operation of efficient methods of computation is imperative to reduce the energy consumption of computation. SNNs, LASSO, and mixed-signal architectures all provide methods to decrease the power consumption of running neural networks. A Nengo model can be constructed to deploy to several architectures. Compression and flattening of input SHD are required to meet memory requirements. On the SDH dataset, the model has RMSEs between 0.012 and 0.014. Unfortunately, neither novel architecture could be tested for power efficiency. For the FPAA, issues with the Reconfigurable Analog Signal Processor (RASP) toolchain prevented development of a hardware description designed for the FPAA.  For Braindrop, the server hosting the architecture went offline before development of the Nengo model could be finished.

<a id="ge">**Gibran Essa - "A Library for Automated Adiabatic Circuit Generation"**</a>

This poster presents an introduction to the concepts behind adiabatic computing and adiabatic circuits. Landauer's principle and the idea that loss of information causes energy dissipation in a circuit. This presents a lower limit to energy disspiation in a circuit. By using adiabatic computing, we can prevent this data loss and therefore power loss. There are various methods of implementing adiabatic computing, and we plan to leverage these to create a standart cell library for use in automatically generating very large adiabatic circuits.

<a id="pg">**Pulkit Gupta, Jack Lafiandra - "Shallow Online Neural Branch Prediction"**</a>

The Shallow Online Neural (SON) predictor makes use of a shallow neural network that is trained in an online fashion to predict branch outcomes. By utilizing a network with a hidden layer and a few activation functions, the predictor is able to extract features for branch prediction using the global and local histories. The predictor also takes advantage of a small tournament to decide between the neural prediction and another predictor. The SON predictor is able to extract branch relationships that cannot be discovered by TAGE or the Hashed Perceptron Predictor. While not as performant as the BranchNet Predictor, the SON predictor is physically realizable and nears the performance. This work also explores key architectural changes that can be applied to hardware implementations through the use of quantized fixed point values in place of floating point values while maintaining reasonable accuracy. In certain workloads, the SON predictor outperforms the state of the art and it is shown that with improvements to the tournament mechanism, the SON predictor has a much higher theoretical prediction accuracy than state of the art.

<a id="hh">**Hang Hu, Euna Kim - "Direction-Optimized Parallel BFS in PIM"**</a>

Our project is **Direction-Optimized Parallel BFS in PIM**. Our motivation comes from that when the frontier is large, there exists an opportunity to perform the breadth-first search more efficiently by searching in the reverse direction. Based on this motivation, we implemented the top-down and bottom-up parallel BFS in PIM using the distributed model /and made several optimization of partitioning methods, MPI messages and so on. We evaluated this BFS on social network graphs. The result shows that /both top-down and bottom-up BFS have a high speedup /and the ideal hybrid one's speedup can be up to 1.5 or even more compared to top-down. But our work is still ongoing. We aim to further optimize this algorithm by avoiding all-to-all communication, and also aim to extend this algorithm to process dynamic graphs.

<a id="vh">**Vincent Huang - "Accurately Modeling Sparse Accesses for Benchmarking and Architectural Simulation"**</a>

We typically generate large memory traces to try and replicate useful memory behaviors from applications. With our current workflow, we might use a tool like DynamoRio or Pin to generate memory traces and then feed those into a simulator. In our desired workflow, we would like to parse memory traces in an online fashion to generate representative sparse access patterns. These patterns can then be used as inputs to architectural simulators (via tools like SST's Miranda trace generator) or sparse access benchmark suites like our Spatter benchmark.This tool attempts to provide the means to parse applications in a reasonable amount of time and then provide reusable patterns that can be used to investigate and validate performance for a specific computer architecture.

<a id="sj">**Sam Jijina - "UAV Workload Characterization and Analysis"**</a>

With fully autonomous flight capabilities coupled with specific applications, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) are becoming prevalent solutions in several commercial and research contexts. However, autonomous drones must operate within constraints and design considerations that are quite different from any other compute-based agent. At any given time, a UAV must arbitrate among its limited compute, energy, and electromechanical resources. These tradeoffs are exacerbated when the workloads widely vary in compute complexity and performance. To better gain an understanding and decrease this knowledge gap, we are exploring workload characterizations for UAVs regarding the various subsystems on these platforms. We build off our previous work in which we presented a design-space exploration of autonomous drone systems and quantified how we can provide a productive solution and add the various performance metrics and experiment data we have conducted which led to the evaluation our UAV platform.

<a id="ak">**Akshay Kamath - "Exploiting HBM for CNN Acceleration on FPGAs"**</a>
No abstract provided.

<a id="mm">**Ankit Kaul, Madison Manley - "Thermal Modeling of 3D Polylithic Integration"**</a>

3D integration of functional chiplets is primarily realized via TSV-based 3D stacking or monolithic 3D integration. However, there is a performance gap between TSV-based 3D and 3D monolithic ICs in terms of bandwidth density, signaling energy-per-bit, and interconnect density. To bridge this gap, we propose a polylithic integration technology for ultra-high density 3D heterogenous integration. In this approach, multiple chiplets are embedded into the BEOL dielectric of an active base tier. We present a thermal study to investigate the thermal limits and challenges in such an integration scheme to investigate the effects of design parameters on the thermal operation of the primary and embedded tiers along with transient analysis to estimate the extent of inter-tier thermal coupling. The dielectric thermal conductivity study suggests that 3D ICs might require heat-sinking from multiple sides and, potentially, advanced backend heat spreading using higher thermal conductivity dielectric materials. Considerable reduction in inter-tier thermal coupling for transient operation was achieved with dual-sided cooling (tier 1 to tier 3 coupling: 85% for air-cooling, reduced to 65% for dual-sided cooling).

One of the major challenges in serving ML applications is the resource pressure introduced. This becomes a bigger problem in resource-constrained, multi-tenant edge server locations. Naive approaches which simply minimize the resource budget allocations of each application result in performance degradation or limit the ability to scale to a larger number of clients. 

This paper presents Pocket—a new approach for ML serving applications in settings like the edge, based on a shared ML runtime backend as a service and lightweight ML application pocket containers. Key to realizing this solution is use of lightweight IPC, support for cross-client isolation, and a novel resource amplification method which inlines resource reallocation with IPC.  The latter ensures just-in-time assignment of the limited edge resources where they're most needed, thereby reducing contention effects and boosting overall performance and efficiency.

Experimental evaluations demonstrate that Pocket can scale to up to 2-3x times more clients with the same amount of resources, while at the same time reducing response time by 20-80% compared to current monolithic designs.

<a id="mp">**Misun Park - "Serving Machine Learning From the Edge"**</a>

One of the major challenges in serving ML applications is the resource pressure introduced. This becomes a bigger problem in resource-constrained, multi-tenant edge server locations. Naive approaches which simply minimize the resource budget allocations of each application result in performance degradation or limit the ability to scale to a larger number of clients. 

This paper presents Pocket—a new approach for ML serving applications in settings like the edge, based on a shared ML runtime backend as a service and lightweight ML application pocket containers. Key to realizing this solution is use of lightweight IPC, support for cross-client isolation, and a novel resource amplification method which inlines resource reallocation with IPC.  The latter ensures just-in-time assignment of the limited edge resources where they're most needed, thereby reducing contention effects and boosting overall performance and efficiency.

Experimental evaluations demonstrate that Pocket can scale to up to 2-3x times more clients with the same amount of resources, while at the same time reducing response time by 20-80% compared to current monolithic designs.

<a id="ep">**Elton Pinto - "Implementing Quantum Verification of Matrix Products"**</a>

This study implements the Quantum Verification of Matrix Products (QVMP) using the Qiskit framework. We evaluate this implementation using gate count, qubit count, circuit depth, and transpilation time metrics. We also analyze the oracle authoring capabilities of Qiskit.

<a id="sr">**Sreejith Rajan, Ankit Kaul - "Silicon Integrated Microfluidic Cooling for High Power 2.5D FPGA"**</a>

The slowing down of Moore’s law is driving the need for chiplet-based integration for high performance compute devices. The 2.5-D integration is becoming a common method of tightly integrating heterogeneous dice with dense interconnects for efficient, high-bandwidth inter-die communication. While this tight integration improves performance, it also increases the challenge of heat extraction by increasing aggregate package powers and introducing thermal crosstalk between the adjacent dice.  This work demonstrates the use of monolithic microfluidic cooling to minimize the performance penalties that might be imposed by these higher thermal loads.  Cooling structures etched directly on the backside of the active silicon and capped with 3D printed fluid delivery structures help create this very efficient thermal management system. Implementation on an Intel 2.5D FPGA shows improvements in both clock frequency as well as overall resource utilization that can be unlocked by this cooling technique. 

<a id="mv">**Marina Vemmou - "COSPlay: Using Coroutines for High-Throughput Synchronous Persistence"**</a>

A key challenge in programming crash-consistent applications for Persistent Memory (PM) is achieving high performance while controlling the order of PM updates. Managing persist ordering from the CPU typically requires frequent synchronization points, which expose the PM’s high persist latency on the execution’s critical path. In this work, we identify the opportunity to mitigate the effect of persist latency by leveraging the task-level parallelism available in many PM applications, while preserving the stricter semantics of synchronous persistence and the familiar x86 persistency model.

We introduce COSPlay, a software-hardware co-design that employs coroutines and rapid userspace context switching to hide persist latency by overlapping persist operations across concurrent tasks. Modest CPU extensions enable the hardware to fully overlap persists of different contexts, while preserving intra-context ordering to meet crash consistency requirements. COSPlay boosts the throughput of crash-consistent applications by up to 1.7x on systems with basic PM support. For systems with higher persist latency due to added backend memory operations, such as encryption and deduplication, COSPlay’s performance gains grow to 2.2 − 7.3x.

<a id="zw">**Zishen Wan - "An Energy-Efficient and Runtime-Reconfigurable FPGA-Based Accelerator for Robotic Localization Systems"**</a>

SLAM (Simultaneous Localization and Mapping) estimates agents’ trajectories and constructs maps, and localization is a fundamental kernel in autonomous machines at all computing scales, from drones, AR/VR to self-driving cars. In this work, we present an energy-efficient and runtime-reconfigurable FPGA-based accelerator for robotic localization. We exploit SLAM-specific data locality, sparsity, reuse, and parallelism, and achieve 5x performance improvement over state-of-the-art. Especially, our design is reconfigurable at runtime according to the environment to save power while sustaining accuracy and performance.
